README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# discrim

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Lifecycle:
experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html)
[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/discrim)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=discrim)
[![Codecov test
coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/tidymodels/discrim/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/tidymodels/discrim?branch=main)
[![R build
status](https://github.com/tidymodels/discrim/workflows/R-CMD-check/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tidymodels/discrim/actions)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/tidymodels/discrim/workflows/R-CMD-check/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tidymodels/discrim/actions)
<!-- badges: end -->

`discrim` contains simple bindings to enable the `parsnip` package to
fit various discriminant analysis models, such as

-   Linear discriminant analysis (LDA, simple and regularized)
-   Quadratic discriminant analysis (QDA, simple and regularized)
-   Regularized discriminant analysis (RDA, via [Friedman
    (1989)](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&as_sdt=0%2C7&q=%22Regularized+Discriminant+Analysis%22&btnG=))
-   Flexible discriminant analysis (FDA) using MARS features
-   Naive Bayes models

## Installation

``` r
devtools::install_github("tidymodels/discrim")
```

## Avaliable Engines

The discrim package provides engines for the models in the following
table.

| model               | engine        | mode           |
|:--------------------|:--------------|:---------------|
| discrim_flexible    | earth         | classification |
| discrim_linear      | MASS          | classification |
| discrim_linear      | mda           | classification |
| discrim_linear      | sda           | classification |
| discrim_linear      | sparsediscrim | classification |
| discrim_quad        | MASS          | classification |
| discrim_quad        | sparsediscrim | classification |
| discrim_regularized | klaR          | classification |
| naive_Bayes         | klaR          | classification |
| naive_Bayes         | naivebayes    | classification |

## Example

Here is a simple model using a simulated two-class data set contained in
the package:

``` r
library(discrim)

parabolic_grid <-
  expand.grid(X1 = seq(-5, 5, length = 100),
              X2 = seq(-5, 5, length = 100))

fda_mod <-
  discrim_flexible(num_terms = 3) %>%
  # increase `num_terms` to find smoother boundaries
  set_engine("earth") %>%
  fit(class ~ ., data = parabolic)

parabolic_grid$fda <-
  predict(fda_mod, parabolic_grid, type = "prob")$.pred_Class1

library(ggplot2)
ggplot(parabolic, aes(x = X1, y = X2)) +
  geom_point(aes(col = class), alpha = .5) +
  geom_contour(data = parabolic_grid, aes(z = fda), col = "black", breaks = .5) +
  theme_bw() +
  theme(legend.position = "top") +
  coord_equal()
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-1.png" width="100%" />

## Contributing

This project is released with a [Contributor Code of
Conduct](https://contributor-covenant.org/version/2/0/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.html).
By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.

-   For questions and discussions about tidymodels packages, modeling,
    and machine learning, please [post on RStudio
    Community](https://community.rstudio.com/new-topic?category_id=15&tags=tidymodels,question).

-   If you think you have encountered a bug, please [submit an
    issue](https://github.com/tidymodels/discrim/issues).

-   Either way, learn how to create and share a
    [reprex](https://reprex.tidyverse.org/articles/articles/learn-reprex.html)
    (a minimal, reproducible example), to clearly communicate about your
    code.

-   Check out further details on [contributing guidelines for tidymodels
    packages](https://www.tidymodels.org/contribute/) and [how to get
    help](https://www.tidymodels.org/help/).

Commit message:

Spring cleaning 🧼 (#50)
* Update CoC

* Update GH actions

* Update DESCRIPTION + README

* Spelling, redocument

* Move to testthat 3e

* Use tidy styler

* Remove Win + R 3.6 because parsnip cannot build on that

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# discrim

<!-- badges: start -->

[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/discrim)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=discrim)
[![Codecov test
coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/tidymodels/discrim/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/tidymodels/discrim?branch=main)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/tidymodels/discrim/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tidymodels/discrim/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![Lifecycle:
experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html)
<!-- badges: end -->

`discrim` contains simple bindings to enable the `parsnip` package to
fit various discriminant analysis models, such as

-   Linear discriminant analysis (LDA, simple and regularized)
-   Quadratic discriminant analysis (QDA, simple and regularized)
-   Regularized discriminant analysis (RDA, via [Friedman
    (1989)](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&as_sdt=0%2C7&q=%22Regularized+Discriminant+Analysis%22&btnG=))
-   Flexible discriminant analysis (FDA) using MARS features
-   Naive Bayes models

## Installation

You can install the released version of discrim from
[CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org) with:

``` r
install.packages("discrim")
```

And the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("tidymodels/discrim")
```

## Available Engines

The discrim package provides engines for the models in the following
table.

| model               | engine        | mode           |
|:--------------------|:--------------|:---------------|
| discrim_flexible    | earth         | classification |
| discrim_linear      | MASS          | classification |
| discrim_linear      | mda           | classification |
| discrim_linear      | sda           | classification |
| discrim_linear      | sparsediscrim | classification |
| discrim_quad        | MASS          | classification |
| discrim_quad        | sparsediscrim | classification |
| discrim_regularized | klaR          | classification |
| naive_Bayes         | klaR          | classification |
| naive_Bayes         | naivebayes    | classification |

## Example

Here is a simple model using a simulated two-class data set contained in
the package:

``` r
library(discrim)

parabolic_grid <-
  expand.grid(X1 = seq(-5, 5, length = 100),
              X2 = seq(-5, 5, length = 100))

fda_mod <-
  discrim_flexible(num_terms = 3) %>%
  # increase `num_terms` to find smoother boundaries
  set_engine("earth") %>%
  fit(class ~ ., data = parabolic)

parabolic_grid$fda <-
  predict(fda_mod, parabolic_grid, type = "prob")$.pred_Class1

library(ggplot2)
ggplot(parabolic, aes(x = X1, y = X2)) +
  geom_point(aes(col = class), alpha = .5) +
  geom_contour(data = parabolic_grid, aes(z = fda), col = "black", breaks = .5) +
  theme_bw() +
  theme(legend.position = "top") +
  coord_equal()
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-1.png" width="100%" />

## Contributing

This project is released with a [Contributor Code of
Conduct](https://contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.html).
By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.

-   For questions and discussions about tidymodels packages, modeling,
    and machine learning, please [post on RStudio
    Community](https://community.rstudio.com/new-topic?category_id=15&tags=tidymodels,question).

-   If you think you have encountered a bug, please [submit an
    issue](https://github.com/tidymodels/discrim/issues).

-   Either way, learn how to create and share a
    [reprex](https://reprex.tidyverse.org/articles/articles/learn-reprex.html)
    (a minimal, reproducible example), to clearly communicate about your
    code.

-   Check out further details on [contributing guidelines for tidymodels
    packages](https://www.tidymodels.org/contribute/) and [how to get
    help](https://www.tidymodels.org/help/).
